link: https://www.wsj.com/articles/usa-gymnastics-interim-ceo-mary-bono-criticized-nike-in-tweet-1539483041

USA Gymnastics Interim CEO Mary Bono Criticized Nike in Tweet
Bono in September posted a tweet disparaging Nike, a sponsor of the U.S. Olympic Committee

Mary Bono, who on Friday was named interim chief executive of USA Gymnastics, said Saturday she regretted a September tweet in which she disparaged Nike Inc., a sponsor of the U.S. Olympic Committee

Ms. Bono, the interim president and CEO of the embattled gymnastics federation, on Sept. 7, 2018 tweeted: “Playing in a charity golf tournament raising money for our nation’s Special Forces operators and their families. Unfortunately had these shoes in my bag. Luckily I had a marker in my bag too....”

Accompanying the tweet was a photo of someone blacking out a white Nike swoosh on a black pair of shoes.

Ms. Bono’s tweet came three days after Nike launched an ad campaign with Colin Kaepernick. The former San Francisco 49ers quarterback gained fame and stirred controversy for kneeling during the national anthem to protest racial injustice and police brutality.

Ms. Bono said she regretted posting the tweet. “This in no way reflects how I will approach my position at USA Gymnastics,” she said Saturday. “I will do everything I can to help change the culture and to work with the entire community to build an open, safe and positive environment.”

A USOC spokesman declined to comment. Nike didn’t respond to a request for comment.

Ms. Bono’s tweet adds to the turmoil at the gymnastics governing body in the wake of the sexual-abuse scandal involving Larry Nassar, the former longtime team doctor. Nassar is now in prison.


Former USA Gymnastics CEO Steve Penny was forced out last year over criticism of his handling of the Nassar scandal. CEO Kerry Perry took over in late 2017 and resigned nine months later, in September, also after criticism.

On Saturday, Olympic champion gymnast Simone Biles retweeted Ms. Bono’s tweet and wrote: “*mouth drop* don’t worry, it’s not like we needed a smarter usa gymnastics president or any sponsors or anything”

Mary Bono in 2011.
Mary Bono in 2011. PHOTO: CLIFF OWEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS
In the past two years several major sponsors, including Hershey Co. and Under Armour Inc., ended or didn’t renew sponsorships of USA Gymnastics.

Ms. Bono is a former gymnast and was a Republican member of the U.S. House of Representatives from southern California for about 15 years. She was first elected to succeed her late husband, the musician Sonny Bono, who had died months earlier.

Recently Ms. Bono was a principal at Faegre Baker Daniels Consulting in Washington, working in legislative strategies and policies, according to USA Gymnastics.